Okay.
So it's time for a Python challenge.
We're actually going to do
two challenges for these, for
the dictionary sort of things.
So the first one, let me introduce,
I'm gonna copy this code because
ultimately we're going to be using
that and I'm gonna create a new file.
A new Python File.
And we'll call this challenge.
I'm just gonna paste it in there.
That's the standard code that we
worked on in the previous video.
But what we're going to do,
come up to the top here.
We're gonna paste in First challenge,
bearing in mind there's a couple of
challenges here, and
we saw a couple of sections.
So the challenge at the moment is to
modify the program that you see below, so
that the exits are a dictionary
rather than a list.
And the keys being the numbers of
the locations and the values being
dictionaries holding the exits, and
obviously they're doing that at present.
So no change should be needed
to the actual code itself,
it's just basically the dictionaries and
lists that you're changing.
And once that's working,
we're gonna create another dictionary
that contains words That players can use.
Instructions, in other words.
And these words will be the keys, and
the valleys will be a single letter that
the can use to determine which way to go.
So that's the challenge.
Two components of a challenge.
And bearing in mind it's also a secondary
challenge which you will be doing later.
So go away and
see if you can complete both of those and
once you're ready come back and we'll work
through both parts of this challenge.
Pause the video now.
Okay, so how did you get on?
Hopefully you managed to resolve that and
you've got it working.
So the first stage is actually quite easy
so what we really want to do here is just
change exits From a dictionary or sorry
from a list I should say to a dictionary.
So let's go ahead now and make the change.
Want to go ahead and
convert the existing list which
is on line 18 into a dictionary.
So to do that we're going to start by
removing the square brackets which
indicate that it's a list.
Like so and I'll just put a bit of
space here so it's a bit clearer.
That we also need to put our keys in for
each part so zero colon,
one colon,
two colon.
Three column, four column,
and five column.
So the keys are obviously the rooms.
The locations as they are before.
And I'll just clear that
up a little bit like so.
And that should be all we need to do.
We've converted it now from
a list to a dictionary.
If a key being the location 0, 1, 2, 3, 4,
5 Which matches our location dictionary
above, so if we run that, and
we should still be able to go
say north you're in the forest,
south you're standing at the end of
a road we can quit, he's sitting
in front of a computer learning Python so
that's the first part of the challenge.
Converting it to a dictionary and
note how we didn't have to change
any of the code that's the beauty
that if we're using a numerical key for
a dictionary, the syntax for retrieving
the dictionary value by key is the same
as retrieving a list item by index.
That's one of the great things that
happened here, the code doesn't have to
change to accommodate The change in the
data structure from list to dictionary.
Okay so for the second part so
we need to create a dictionary whose
keys are the words we're interested and
the values of the single letter
that the program expects.
So if the pro players talks
more than a single letter.
Then we use the vocabulary dictionary.
Because they could type
something like run less quickly,
we don't use the text as the value to
look up, but we do it the other way.
We iterate through the keys
to see if their text
contains one of the words
that we recognize.
So, what we need to do first is create our
vocabulary, we're going to put it down
here and that's going to be a dictionary
with the relevant commands.
So, we're going to start by
typing vocabulary equals and
the first one will be quit and
the key, the value will be two.
North, north, south,
east, and west.
[SOUND] And
we can just tidy it up a little bit so
it sits there nicely, but that's optional.
So we've now assigned the vocabulary.
The dictionary.
We've assigned and created a dictionary
and assigned it to vocabulary.
The variable.
So what we want to do
now is add some codes.
So once we've actually got a command
that's been given to us and
the users selected that and typed it in.
Down here we want to
start adding some code.
So we want to parse the input so
we're gonna parse user
report using our vocabulary
dictionary if necessary.
And we're only going to do that remember
if the length is greater than one.
So I'm going to put if, len, direction,
direction, greater than one.
In other words, more than one letter.
Check out vocab.
Then we put four word in vocabulary.
So what effectively we're doing now
is does it contain a word we know?
If word in direction,
if it does then direction,
direction becomes equal
to vocabulary(word) and
we'll just clean it up a little bit.
And that's actually it
as you can see then.
Remember, we're also converting
it to upper case as well.
So we're really only testing
to see whatever they have
typed is greater than 1, so
more than one character.
If it is, we're gonna go through our
dictionary and try to find a match for
whatever they have typed.
And if they have typed
something like north,
we're gonna match it back to
the value N as you can see there.
Let's actually run this and
see if it works.
So, first thing, you should just check.
If you go north, you're in a forest.
South, you're standing in the road.
And if you type north, you're in a forest.
But also you should be able to type,
go north.
Your gonna first go south,
and the reason is
we're actually done looking at our and
we're going through our dictionary and
we're comparing each word of
the dictionary to see whether it's fine or
whatevers being So, the entire string is
going south We are checking to see if
the word South is actually in that string
and that's why it's working that way
even though we've typed extra letters that
are not in it, exact match so to speak.
So what we now got is
a fairly flexible way for
players to specify which
direction they'd like to go in.
And for that reason alone hopefully
that's demonstrated the power of using
dictionaries.
Once you are actually used to using
dictionaries Even our exits one.
The exits diction where you will be
converted makes a lot more sense, but
you can probably see why we chose
to use a list initially and
that's because a dictionary
of dictionaries
can look confusing at first until
you sort of understand the.
Concepts.
Now with that said, we can make
the program a bit more efficient though.
So it's quite likely that our
vocabulary will grow quite large,
whereas the text the players type
in will only be a few words.
So as a result,
it's really not efficient to perform
the word lookup the way we have.
As we could literally end up iterating
through a large collection of keys before
we find the one that's
in the player's input,
that's contained in the player's input.
A better way would be to check each
word that the player has typed to
see if it's in the vocabulary.
Cuz obviously, starting from that way,
rather than coming from the.
Starting at the vocabulary and
going through that.
Better to go the other way.
And Python provides a way to do just that.
So what we need to do is break up
the input that the [INAUDIBLE].
Applies topped into individual words
in other words individual sequences of
characters separated by spaces so really
what we want to do there is we want to do
the opposite of join and in fact there is
a method to do that and its called split.
And it does exactly what we want.
So given a string,
the split command or the split
method will split a string into a list
containing all the parts of the string
that are separated by the delimiter of our
choice, which is gonna be a space here.
And if we don't specify a delimiter,
it defaults to a space.
But we could use commas,
colons or any other type of text
that we want as a delimiter.
So let's have a look at,
see that in action.
What we want to do before we start,
we want to comment
out the call of the [INAUDIBLE] So
I'm going to close this down.
Disconnect.
Let's go ahead and comment all that
code out for now, cuz we don't need it.
Come back to that later.
Comment all that out again with command
slash, which is control slash for
Windows and Linux after selecting it, and
we'll put our code up here We're probably
coming to that area as well, the lock = 1
because that's all part and parcel of it.
So let's actually try the split function,
let's do a couple of examples.
We can do a print locations 0.
split, and also try print locations 3.
split.
Passing a parameter this time.
I was, or, comma.
And let's also try this one.
Print.
Space.
Dot.
Join locations.
Zero.
Dot.
Spirit.
[SOUND] So, let's run this.
So you can see what happened
with the first one.
It splits, you are sitting in front of
a computer learning Python, into a list
containing the 10 words, which is pretty
cool that it's done that automatically.
The 2nd example gave a list, gives a list
containing 2 items, as you can see,
because it's split based on the fact that
we passed the parameter of a comma, so
it's using that a as a delimiter
instead of the default being a space.
Which the split method will use
unless you give it a parameter.
And incidentally if you didn't want
a leading space in the second list item,
you could specify comma as a string to
split on if you wanted to do it that way.
So split's the opposite of join so
the final print is interesting if
as it turns out a little futile.
So it uses split to split the text that
spaces, but then it also calls join
on a string containing a single
space to join them back up again.
So really the end result is the orignal
string that you worked with.
Ok, so armed with this split method,
we can rewrite the program to
work the correct way around.
So I can check the players
input against the vocabulary,
instead of the other way around.
So let's go back and do that.
And I'm going to comment these [INAUDIBLE]
out, like so, and I'm going to select
the [INAUDIBLE] code that we Comment
it out, and do a command slash again.
Just control slash on Windows and
Linux, and that makes it,
more [INAUDIBLE] gets rid of the comments,
so that we can work on it again.
So what we want to do here is see,
in this method is this part here
after the [INAUDIBLE] direction.
You really just want to
comment that out for now.
[INAUDIBLE] I'll do is I'll delete that.
So after the test to make sure that what's
been taught has more than one characters
in it,
we do words equals direction of split.
So we're splitting up the input using
the default delimiter of a space.
Cuz we're gonna go through those words,
so for word in words.
And we're going a test the other way
this time and we're putting if word In
vocabulary direction
equals vocabulary word.
And we can also break at that point.
So you can see how we've
done it the other way now.
So what we've done is we've taken doing
our searching based on what the users
typed instead of going through the whole
dictionary, which Isn't a problem now, but
if we started having hundreds of entries,
it could start slowing it down.
So it's always something that you should
be looking at when you're developing code,
to decide which angle should I start from.
Is it best to start, in this case,
from the user's input,
because chances are there's only
gonna be a few words there,
instead of automatically processing
the entire dictionary each time,
which we did in sort of
the first version of this code.
Let's run this and make sure it works.
So if we type east, okay, and
now back to west again, and
if we type E, go back to west again.
Please sir, can I go east.
And it's gonna say it's found east,
so it's gonna [INAUDIBLE]
each one of those words and found east
as the last word, And that works.
So we go back west again.
And just to make sure,
how bout going east now again.
And still found that as well.
So that's it.
I hope
you got a lot out of that challenge.
So we're not done yet with dictionaries.
In the next video, we're gonna go ahead
and continue our work on dictionaries.
And specifically we're going to
be looking at the update method
which allows you to
combine two dictionaries.
And also a copy method that's used
to create a copy of a dictionary and
then we'll go into another challenge for
that as well.
So see you in the next video.